---
title: IBM Rant
date: 2018-02-24 21:40:00
---
[read-your-tos-ibm]: https://quantumexperience.ng.bluemix.net/terms-and-conditions.html
[gpl3]: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html

... Also, once I make enough to be able to build a Quantum Computer, I am most definitely going to do that and make it available for others to use without any stipulations such as making the user [fork over copyright ownership][read-your-tos-ibm]. I am just glad I read the Terms of Service before using the service. I would not be a happy camper if I had to deal with a lawsuit, especially over my own data. The most I would do is have you promise me, through the usage of the service, to not sue me for using your data. I wouldn't try to claim ownership over it.

I was getting off on a tangent, but the point is... You know what, I just read more of the IBM's tos. IBM can terminate my account all they want for this. Let this be a lesson to everyone. I will not pull this stunt with anyone. I believe in Open Source projects, whether they be physical, such as the design of an object or hardware, or digital, such as digital paintings, music, programs, etc...

Rover will continue being under [GPL 3][gpl3] and higher for its code. Part of the TLDR (Too Long; Didn't Read) for GPL3 is

* You can use the software/project for commercial use, even if you are not the original creator for it.
* You can modify the software/project and redistribute it yourself
* You cannot sublicense the project (so, no releasing a copyrighted version of Rover, it still has to be under GPL3)

Now, there are other things such as making other people who release a project that uses Rover also use GPL3, but that doesn't strip away the rights of people wanting the use the software or service. As for things that do strip away people's rights, here is part of the TOS that I linked above.

{% highlight none %}
Licensee hereby assigns and shall continue to assign to IBM all right, title, and interest (including ownership of copyright) in any data, suggestions, or written materials that are related to the construction, manufacture or operation of the IQE, including, but not limited to, Scores and QASMs that Licensee provides to IBM.Upon IBM's request, Licensee will sign additional documents necessary to assign such rights.
{% endhighlight %}

My favorite part of the TOS is this

{% highlight none %}
Each party agrees not to use or refer to this Agreement or its terms in any such activities without the express written approval of the other party.
{% endhighlight %}

Edit:

Now, since I had actually moved my rant to a different page, I am just going to copy the Terms of Service below this line incase it gets removed or changed.

{% highlight none %}
IBM Q EXPERIENCE LICENSE AGREEMENT
PART 1 - General Terms
BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE WEBSITE, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE WEBSITE; AND

PART 2
1. Definitions

"Authorized Use" - the specified level at which Licensee is authorized to execute or run their algorithms. That level may be measured by qualified users, time, Processor availability, or other level of use specified by IBM.

"IBM" - International Business Machines Corporation or one of its subsidiaries.

"License Information" ("LI") - a document or authorization that provides information and any additional terms

"IBM Q experience" ("IQE"") includes an actual quantum processor, a quantum software platform including a composer, compiler and tools, a quantum simulator, test platform, Scores, Results and IBM’s Q experience website.

"Scores" are user quantum circuits created by dragging gates to control qubit functions in the composer GUI to create Results.

"QASMs" are text quantum circuits which can be (i) typed or otherwise provided by users via the "Quantum Composer" QASMs input panel or (ii) generated by the IQE based on Scores to create Results.

“User’s Results” - results from running your Score on the Quantum Hardware or Quantum Simulator.

"Test Period" - the period during which the Licensee tests an algorithm.

2. Purpose

IBM provides access to the IBM Q experience to you for programming quantum algorithms and for testing and evaluation of IBM’s quantum computer. This is for research purposes only and results are not guaranteed.

3. IP Rights

3.1 Licensee shall own its pre-existing material, its User’s Results, User’s created QASMs not related to the IQE and all rights and title to all intellectual property thereof. The IQE is owned by IBM. IBM owns all rights and title to all intellectual property of the IQE including Scores and QASMs related to the IQE.

3.2 IBM grants Licensee a limited, nonexclusive, nontransferable license for testing and feedback purposes only to 1) use IBM’s quantum website; 2) use the quantum simulator and quantum composer; 3) create Scores and QASMs during the Test Period up to the Authorized Use specified in the LI to create Results; 4) save Licensee’s Scores and QASMs on the IQE; and provide feedback to IBM; all provided that:

Licensee reproduces all IP notices and other legends of ownership on each copy, or partial copy, of any IBM information downloaded from the site.
Licensee does not 1) use the IQE for productive and commercial purposes or for commercial application hosting.
3.3 Licensee grants to IBM a non-exclusive, irrevocable, unrestricted, worldwide and paid-up right, license and sublicense to a) include in any product or service any idea, know-how, feedback, concept, technique, invention, discovery or improvement, whether or not patentable, that Licensee creates using the IQE or otherwise provides to IBM, b) use, manufacture and market any such product or service, and c) allow others to do any of the foregoing.

4. Updates, Fixes, and Patches

IBM cautions users and reserves the right for IBM to make an update, fix, or patch to the IQE at any time without notice. IBM is under no obligation to maintain, correct, or otherwise support the IQE. IBM does not warrant that any prior version Score will be compatible with any updates to code or hardware. The IQE may never be made generally available.

5. Term and Termination

The Test Period begins and ends on the dates respectively authorized by IBM. IBM may terminate Licensee's license if Licensee fails to comply with the terms of this Agreement. The license will terminate at the end of this agreement.

6. Charges

There is no charge for the use of the quantum simulator for the duration of the Test Period. Use for running on the quantum computer hardware requires Authorized Use under an LI.

7. Rights in Data

Licensee hereby assigns and shall continue to assign to IBM all right, title, and interest (including ownership of copyright) in any data, suggestions, or written materials that are related to the construction, manufacture or operation of the IQE, including, but not limited to, Scores and QASMs that Licensee provides to IBM.Upon IBM's request, Licensee will sign additional documents necessary to assign such rights. 

8. No Warranties

SUBJECT TO ANY STATUTORY WARRANTIES THAT CANNOT BE EXCLUDED, IBM MAKES NO WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE PROGRAM, HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, SUPPORT, OR TOOLS, IF ANY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND TITLE, AND ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT.

SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. IN THAT EVENT, SUCH WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE MINIMUM PERIOD REQUIRED BY LAW. NO WARRANTIES APPLY AFTER THAT PERIOD. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. LICENSEE MAY HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM STATE TO STATE OR JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.

THE DISCLAIMERS AND EXCLUSIONS IN THIS SECTION 6 ALSO APPLY TO ANY OF IBM'S PROGRAM DEVELOPERS AND SUPPLIERS.

MANUFACTURERS, SUPPLIERS, OR PUBLISHERS OF NON-IBM PROGRAMS MAY PROVIDE THEIR OWN WARRANTIES.

IBM DOES NOT PROVIDE SUPPORT OF ANY KIND, UNLESS IBM SPECIFIES OTHERWISE. IN SUCH EVENT, ANY SUPPORT PROVIDED BY IBM IS SUBJECT TO THE DISCLAIMERS AND EXCLUSIONS IN THIS SECTION 6. IBM MAKES NO REPRESENTATION ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THE WEBSITE.

9. Limitation of Liability

The limitations and exclusions in this Section 9 (Limitation of Liability) apply to the full extent they are not prohibited by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver.

9.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable

Circumstances may arise where, because of a default on IBM's part or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate arising from or related to any harm or otherwise arising under this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property and 2) other actual direct damages up to U.S. $10,000 (or equivalent in local currency).

This limit also applies to any of IBM's developers and suppliers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its Program developers and suppliers are collectively responsible.

9.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES ARE IBM, ITS DEVELOPERS AND SUPPLIERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY:

LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA;
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; OR
LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS.
10. General

Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract.
If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement remain in full force and effect.
Each party agrees to comply and to reasonably assist the other in complying with applicable government export and import laws and regulations including those of the United States. Further, both parties will not directly or indirectly export or re-export, at any time, any technology, software and/or commodities furnished or developed under this Agreement between the parties, or its direct product, to any prohibited country (including release of technology, software and/or commodities to nationals, wherever they may be located, of any prohibited country) as specified in applicable export, embargo, and sanctions regulations. End User acknowledges that IBM may use global resources (non-permanent residents used locally and personnel in locations worldwide) to remotely support the delivery of IBM's Quantum Computing Cloud Offering. User represents that content will not, in whole or part, be controlled under the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR) or the defense trade control regime of any country and that no content accessible to IBM will require an export license or is restricted from export to any IBM global resource or personnel under applicable export control laws. End User represents that content will not be described on the Commerce Control List of the U.S. Export Administration Regulations or the dual-use control list of any country.
Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation: 1) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, for any claim arising out of or related to this Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose; and 2) upon the expiration of such time limit, any such claim and all respective rights related to the claim lapse.
Neither Licensee nor IBM is responsible for failure to fulfill any obligations due to causes beyond its control.
No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except as permitted in Subsection 9.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable) above for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real or tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.
In entering into this Agreement, neither party is relying on any representation not specified in this Agreement.
Except as explicitly provided in this Agreement, this Agreement does not grant any licenses, either directly or indirectly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise, to either party under any patent, copyright or other intellectual property right of the other party. This Agreement does not confer any right to use in advertising, publications or promotional activities any name, trade name, trademark or other designation of either party (including any contraction, abbreviation or simulation of any of the foregoing). Each party agrees not to use or refer to this Agreement or its terms in any such activities without the express written approval of the other party.
Licensee may not assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, without IBM's prior written consent. Any attempt to do so is void.
Any terms of this Agreement that by their nature extend beyond termination of this Agreement remain in effect until fulfilled, and apply to both parties' respective successors and assignees.
Both parties agree that all information exchanged is nonconfidential. If either party requires the exchange of confidential information, it will be made under a signed confidentiality agreement.
11. Governing Law

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to its conflict of law’s provisions. Any proceeding to resolve disputes relating to this Agreement will be brought in a U.S. federal court in New York if there is jurisdiction. The parties expressly waive the right to trial by jury in any matter which arises under this Agreement.
{% endhighlight %}

Yeah, I got really ticked off when I saw the last part of the TOS I wrote about. I didn't even know about that part until now as I quit reading the TOS after the copyright ownership stealing part. I even had a whole class presentation in Computer Ethics class about this too. Oh well, this should help me feel better. Its a real shame that I almost didn't read it too and I know there are people who just happily accept these agreements without a second thought.
