---
title: Rover
date: 2018-02-24 17:45:00
---
[blog]: https://senorcontento.com/
[gas-gist]: https://gist.github.com/bgbrandongomez/cdfced9bcfce4d8bfce43f9f9e76a31a
[ifttt]: https://ifttt.com/
[watson]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watson_(computer)
[kickstarter]: https://www.kickstarter.com/profile/senorcontento
[dota-2-bot]: https://blog.openai.com/dota-2/
[rant]: /postdata/2018-02-24-Rover/2018-02-24-IBM-Rant

Hello, my name is Brandon Gomez (You may find me on the internet as SenorContento). You can find out more about me on my [normal blog][blog]. I have the beginning's of a project called Rover. I have been working on Rover for a while now. I originally only had Rover on GroupMe through the use of [Google App Scripts][gas-gist] and a webhook. I had put down March 5, 2017 as Rover's Birthday, otherwise the day I first started working on Rover. Now, I just run a Python 3 version of Rover.

As for Rover 2 (the Python version), I run my copy of the bot off of a Raspberry Pi 3. When I say my copy, the whole point of writing in Python is to make Rover easily accessible to tinkerers and hobbyists. You can always download your own copy of Rover and run the program. Another cool part of Rover's design is that Rover is modular. That means you can create modules and drop them into the modules folder and use that module with commands and other modules to do whatever you want. The whole point of Rover is to be able to take your data collected from your modules, process it the way you want, and then return the results. In its simplest form, Rover is going to be like [IFTTT][ifttt]; in a more advanced form, Rover will be like [IBM's Watson][watson]!

I still have to add support for user scripts so commands and communication modules will be able to be controlled at a more complex level than can currently be controlled. This will allow features to become available such as instructing Rover to perform an action on Telegram by texting it from your cellphone. Currently Rover will just respond to your text, but unless a command module is written specifically to authenticate with Telegram and then perform the action needed, Rover will not be able to do anything with Telegram. User scripts will allow a communication module to tell a script to activate and then that script can instruct both communication modules and commands to do what it wants.

I will be starting a [Kickstarter][kickstarter] for Rover within the next few months. I just want to make sure I have written enough documentation and have outlined my goal clearly. With Kickstarter, I will be able to work on not only making Rover become usable enough to work as an advanced IFTTT, but also to make its way onto having machine learning and deep learning. I know that Rover will not be able to run a full fledged neural network on a Raspberry Pi, so I am going to need to get a better computer for any kind of machine learning. With this, Rover can become even more powerful if I was to give it the ability to combine several pieces of hardware together with several versions of Rover working together at once. Aside from the obvious benefit of more processing power, any specialized hardware (say you have a quantum computer or just a gaming computer with a ridiculously good graphics card) will give Rover the ability to offset tasks onto that computer specialized for that specific task. This will make it possible to build robots similar to one by [OpenAI][dota-2-bot] more easily. While I was in the middle of writing this post, I had a rant about abusing Terms of Service that had nothing to do with Rover, so I moved it to a [different page][rant].

Getting back on tangent, I am working hard on making Rover into a machine learning bot that can be used by many different people and even combined with other versions of Rover to perform the tasks people want or need and to discover knowledge and information that otherwise would not have been possible. An example of the knowledge and information can be looking at a bank account and determining a budget (all under the users control of course) or something grand such as simulating and testing particle acceleration. Now, I myself am not planning on making a particle accelerator, although I would be interested in a simulator. Could be useful to discover new elements or test the effects on existing ones.

I will be talking more in depth about modules that currently exist or ones that I plan on making in future posts as I could talk about them all day and make this post long enough that had it been printed out, it would span for miles.

I guess in the end, to boil down the whole point of Rover to a single sentence, Rover will aggregate and process data to benefit the people in this world. Having this goal and even releasing Rover as Open Source under GPL3 works with my (and subsequently CubeTech's) motto "Knowledge is Power, so let's build knowledge together!!!".
